README.md, before:

# letsencrypt

[![Puppet Forge](http://img.shields.io/puppetforge/v/bzed/letsencrypt.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/bzed/letsencrypt) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bzed/bzed-letsencrypt.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bzed/bzed-letsencrypt)


#### Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Module Description - What the module does and why it is useful](#module-description)
3. [Setup - The basics of getting started with letsencrypt](#setup)
    * [What letsencrypt affects](#what-letsencrypt-affects)
    * [Setup requirements](#setup-requirements)
    * [Beginning with letsencrypt](#beginning-with-letsencrypt)
4. [Usage - Configuration options and additional functionality](#usage)
5. [Reference - An under-the-hood peek at what the module is doing and how](#reference)
5. [Limitations - OS compatibility, etc.](#limitations)
6. [Development - Guide for contributing to the module](#development)

## Overview

Centralized CSR signing using letsencrypt - keeping your keys safe on the host they belong to.

## Module Description

bzed-letsencrypy creates private keys and CSRs, transfers
the CSR to a puppetmaster where it is signed using
the well known letsencrypt.sh
https://github.com/lukas2511/letsencrypt.sh

Signed certificates are shipped back to the appropriate host.

You need to provide an appropriate hook script for letsencryt.sh,
The default is to use the DNS-01 challenge, but if you hook
supports it you could also create the necessary files for http-01.

## Setup

### What letsencrypt affects


* letsencrypt.sh is running at the puppetmaster host as it is easier
  to read and work with certificate files stored directly on the puppet
  master. Retrieving them using facter is unnecessarily complicated.


### Setup Requirements

You need to ensure that exported ressources are working and pluginsync
is enabled.

### Beginning with letsencrypt

In the best case: add the letsencrupt class and override $domains
with a list of domains you want to get certificates for.

## Usage
### On puppet nodes
On a puppet node where you need your certificates:
~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        domains     => [ 'foo.example.com', 'fuzz.example.com' ],
    }
~~~
Key and CSR will be generated on your node and the CSR
is shipped to your puppetmaster for signing.

#### SAN Certificates
Requesting SAN certificates is also possible. To do so pass a
space seperated list of domainnames into the domains array.
The first domainname in each list is used as the base domain
for the request. For example:
~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        domains     => [
            'foo.example.com bar.example.com good.example.com',
            'fuzz.example.com'
        ],
    }
~~~

### On your puppetmaster:
What you need to prepare is a hook you want to use with letsencrypt.sh
as you need to deploy the challenges somehow. Various examples for
valid DNS-01 hooks are listed on
https://github.com/lukas2511/letsencrypt.sh/wiki/Examples-for-DNS-01-hooks

~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        hook_source => 'puppet:///modules/mymodule/letsencrypt_sh_hook'
    }
~~~
CSRs are collected and signed, and the resulting
certificates and CA chain files are shipped back to your node.


## Reference

Classes:
* letsencrypt
* letsencrypt::params
* letsencrypt::request::handler

Defines:
* letsencrypt::csr
* letsencrypt::deploy
* letsencrypt::deploy::crt
* letsencrypt::request
* letsencrypt::request::crt

Facts:
* letsencrypt\_csrs
* letsencrypt\_csr\_\*
* letsencrypt\_crts

## Limitations

Not really well tested yet, no spec tests....

## Development

Patches are very welcome!

Commit message:

Document the letsencrypt_ca option.

README.md, after:

# letsencrypt

[![Puppet Forge](http://img.shields.io/puppetforge/v/bzed/letsencrypt.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/bzed/letsencrypt) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bzed/bzed-letsencrypt.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bzed/bzed-letsencrypt)


#### Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Module Description - What the module does and why it is useful](#module-description)
3. [Setup - The basics of getting started with letsencrypt](#setup)
    * [What letsencrypt affects](#what-letsencrypt-affects)
    * [Setup requirements](#setup-requirements)
    * [Beginning with letsencrypt](#beginning-with-letsencrypt)
4. [Usage - Configuration options and additional functionality](#usage)
5. [Reference - An under-the-hood peek at what the module is doing and how](#reference)
5. [Limitations - OS compatibility, etc.](#limitations)
6. [Development - Guide for contributing to the module](#development)

## Overview

Centralized CSR signing using letsencrypt - keeping your keys safe on the host they belong to.

## Module Description

bzed-letsencrypy creates private keys and CSRs, transfers
the CSR to a puppetmaster where it is signed using
the well known letsencrypt.sh
https://github.com/lukas2511/letsencrypt.sh

Signed certificates are shipped back to the appropriate host.

You need to provide an appropriate hook script for letsencryt.sh,
The default is to use the DNS-01 challenge, but if you hook
supports it you could also create the necessary files for http-01.

## Setup

### What letsencrypt affects


* letsencrypt.sh is running at the puppetmaster host as it is easier
  to read and work with certificate files stored directly on the puppet
  master. Retrieving them using facter is unnecessarily complicated.


### Setup Requirements

You need to ensure that exported ressources are working and pluginsync
is enabled.

### Beginning with letsencrypt

In the best case: add the letsencrupt class and override $domains
with a list of domains you want to get certificates for.

## Usage
### On puppet nodes
On a puppet node where you need your certificates:
~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        domains     => [ 'foo.example.com', 'fuzz.example.com' ],
    }
~~~
Key and CSR will be generated on your node and the CSR
is shipped to your puppetmaster for signing.

#### SAN Certificates
Requesting SAN certificates is also possible. To do so pass a
space seperated list of domainnames into the domains array.
The first domainname in each list is used as the base domain
for the request. For example:
~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        domains     => [
            'foo.example.com bar.example.com good.example.com',
            'fuzz.example.com'
        ],
    }
~~~

### On your puppetmaster:
What you need to prepare is a hook you want to use with letsencrypt.sh
as you need to deploy the challenges somehow. Various examples for
valid DNS-01 hooks are listed on
https://github.com/lukas2511/letsencrypt.sh/wiki/Examples-for-DNS-01-hooks

~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        hook_source => 'puppet:///modules/mymodule/letsencrypt_sh_hook'
    }
~~~
CSRs are collected and signed, and the resulting
certificates and CA chain files are shipped back to your node.

#### Testing and Debugging
For testing purposes you want to use the staging CA, otherwise
you'll hit rate limits pretty soon. To do s set the letsencrypt\_ca
option:
~~~puppet
    class { 'letsencrypt' :
        hook_source    => 'puppet:///modules/mymodule/letsencrypt_sh_hook',
        letsencrypt_ca => 'https://acme-staging.api.letsencrypt.org/directory',
    }
~~~


## Reference

Classes:
* letsencrypt
* letsencrypt::params
* letsencrypt::request::handler

Defines:
* letsencrypt::csr
* letsencrypt::deploy
* letsencrypt::deploy::crt
* letsencrypt::request
* letsencrypt::request::crt

Facts:
* letsencrypt\_csrs
* letsencrypt\_csr\_\*
* letsencrypt\_crts

## Limitations

Not really well tested yet, no spec tests....

## Development

Patches are very welcome!
